docs/experimental/tutorials/agent.md, before:

# Evaluate an AI agent

This tutorial demonstrates how to evaluate an AI agent using Ragas, specifically a mathematical agent that can solve complex expressions using atomic operations and function calling capabilities. By the end of this tutorial, you will learn how to evaluate and iterate on an agent using evaluation-driven development.

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[User Input<br/>Math Expression] --> B[MathToolsAgent]

    subgraph LLM Agent Loop
        B --> D{Need to use a Tool?}
        D -- Yes --> E[Call Tool<br/>add/sub/mul/div]
        E --> F[Tool Result]
        F --> B
        D -- No --> G[Emit Final Answer]
    end

    G --> H[Final Answer]
```

We will start by testing our simple agent that can solve mathematical expressions using atomic operations and function calling capabilities.

```bash
python -m ragas_examples.agent_evals.agent
```

Next, we will write down a few sample expressions and expected outputs for our agent. Then convert them to a CSV file.

```python
import pandas as pd

dataset = [
    {"expression": "(2 + 3) * (4 - 1)", "expected": 15},
    {"expression": "5 * (6 + 2)", "expected": 40},
    {"expression": "10 - (3 + 2)", "expected": 5},
]

df = pd.DataFrame(dataset)
df.to_csv("datasets/test_dataset.csv", index=False)
```

To evaluate the performance of our agent, we will define a non llm metric that compares if our agent's output is within a certain tolerance of the expected output and outputs 1/0 based on it.

```python
from ragas_experimental.metrics import numeric_metric
from ragas_experimental.metrics.result import MetricResult

@numeric_metric(name="correctness")
def correctness_metric(prediction: float, actual: float):
    """Calculate correctness of the prediction."""
    if isinstance(prediction, str) and "ERROR" in prediction:
        return 0.0
    result = 1.0 if abs(prediction - actual) < 1e-5 else 0.0
    return MetricResult(result=result, reason=f"Prediction: {prediction}, Actual: {actual}")
```

Next, we will write the experiment loop that will run our agent on the test dataset and evaluate it using the metric, and store the results in a CSV file.

```python
from ragas_experimental import experiment

@experiment()
async def run_experiment(row):
    question = row["question"]
    expected_answer = row["answer"]

    # Get the model's prediction
    prediction = math_agent.solve(question)

    # Calculate the correctness metric
    correctness = correctness_metric.score(prediction=prediction.get("result"), actual=expected_answer)

    return {
        "question": question,
        "expected_answer": expected_answer,
        "prediction": prediction.get("result"),
        "log_file": prediction.get("log_file"),
        "correctness": correctness.result
    }
```

Now whenever you make a change to your agent, you can run the experiment and see how it affects the performance of your agent.

## Running the example end to end

1. Setup your OpenAI API key

```bash
export OPENAI_API_KEY="your_api_key_here"
```
2. Run the evaluation

```bash
python -m ragas_examples.agent_evals.evals
``` 

Viola! You have successfully evaluated an AI agent using Ragas. You can now view the results by opening the `experiments/experiment_name.csv` file.

Commit message:

Fix experimental docs navigation, fix broken tutorials, improve examples for better user understanding (#2156)
This PR improves the experimental documentation with better
organization, clearer navigation, and fixes to code examples throughout
the tutorials.

### 🔄 Navigation & Structure Improvements
- **Renamed "Explanation" → "Core Concepts"** for clearer terminology
- **Reordered tutorials** to follow a logical learning progression:
  1. Prompt → RAG → Workflow → Agent (simple to complex)
- **Reordered core concepts** to match tutorial flow:
  1. Metrics → Datasets → Experimentation
- **Fixed mkdocs.yml path** from `src` to `ragas/src` for proper
documentation generation

### 📝 Content & Code Fixes
- **Standardized API usage** across all examples:
  - Changed `result` → `value` in `MetricResult` objects
  - Fixed `values` → `allowed_values` in metric definitions
  - Updated response handling in RAG examples
- **Enhanced tutorial clarity**:
  - Added setup instructions and prerequisites
  - Improved code explanations and comments
  - Added Quick Start sections for immediate testing
  - Fixed module import paths (`rag_evals` → `rag_eval`, etc.)
- **Improved error handling** in example code with proper API key
validation
- Added experiment result printing for better debugging
- Improved error messages and user guidance

### 🎯 Impact
These changes make the experimental documentation more accessible to new
users while providing a smoother learning experience that progresses
from simple prompt evaluation to complex agent workflows.

All examples have been tested and verified to work with the current API
structure.

docs/experimental/tutorials/agent.md, after:

# Evaluate an AI agent

This tutorial demonstrates how to evaluate an AI agent using Ragas, specifically a mathematical agent that can solve complex expressions using atomic operations and function calling capabilities. By the end of this tutorial, you will learn how to evaluate and iterate on an agent using evaluation-driven development.

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[User Input<br/>Math Expression] --> B[MathToolsAgent]

    subgraph LLM Agent Loop
        B --> D{Need to use a Tool?}
        D -- Yes --> E[Call Tool<br/>add/sub/mul/div]
        E --> F[Tool Result]
        F --> B
        D -- No --> G[Emit Final Answer]
    end

    G --> H[Final Answer]
```

We will start by testing our simple agent that can solve mathematical expressions using atomic operations and function calling capabilities.

```bash
python -m ragas_examples.agent_evals.agent
```

Next, we will create a few sample expressions and expected outputs for our agent, then convert them to a CSV file.

```python
import pandas as pd

dataset = [
    {"expression": "(2 + 3) * (4 - 1)", "expected": 15},
    {"expression": "5 * (6 + 2)", "expected": 40},
    {"expression": "10 - (3 + 2)", "expected": 5},
]

df = pd.DataFrame(dataset)
df.to_csv("datasets/test_dataset.csv", index=False)
```

To evaluate the performance of our agent, we will define a non-LLM metric that compares if our agent's output is within a certain tolerance of the expected output and returns 1/0 based on the comparison.

```python
from ragas_experimental.metrics import numeric_metric
from ragas_experimental.metrics.result import MetricResult

@numeric_metric(name="correctness")
def correctness_metric(prediction: float, actual: float):
    """Calculate correctness of the prediction."""
    if isinstance(prediction, str) and "ERROR" in prediction:
        return 0.0
    result = 1.0 if abs(prediction - actual) < 1e-5 else 0.0
    return MetricResult(value=result, reason=f"Prediction: {prediction}, Actual: {actual}")
```

Next, we will write the experiment loop that will run our agent on the test dataset and evaluate it using the metric, and store the results in a CSV file.

```python
from ragas_experimental import experiment

@experiment()
async def run_experiment(row):
    question = row["question"]
    expected_answer = row["answer"]

    # Get the model's prediction
    prediction = math_agent.solve(question)

    # Calculate the correctness metric
    correctness = correctness_metric.score(prediction=prediction.get("result"), actual=expected_answer)

    return {
        "question": question,
        "expected_answer": expected_answer,
        "prediction": prediction.get("result"),
        "log_file": prediction.get("log_file"),
        "correctness": correctness.value
    }
```

Now whenever you make a change to your agent, you can run the experiment and see how it affects the performance of your agent.

## Running the example end to end

1. Set up your OpenAI API key
```bash
export OPENAI_API_KEY="your_api_key_here"
```

2. Run the evaluation
```bash
python -m ragas_examples.agent_evals.evals
``` 

Voilà! You have successfully evaluated an AI agent using Ragas. You can now view the results by opening the `experiments/experiment_name.csv` file.
